Policy IDHRM-001
Policy TitleConovo Technologies (Pvt) Ltd – Attendance Policy
DepartmentAll Departments
Applicable PeriodApplicable unless notified otherwise
CONOVO TECHNOLOGIES (PVT) LTD – ATTENDANCE POLICY
OWNERSHIP
This policy is owned by Conovo Technologies (Pvt) Ltd. Any and all changes to this policy may be made and
approved by the Human Resource Manager and subject to the sign-off by the CEO. HR shall ensure that this policy
cascaded to, understood and followed by all Team Leads, Departments and relevant stakeholders. Team Leads are
responsible for ensuring operational compliance with this policy and process with the appropriate level of guidance
and support from HR.
SIGNED BY
Name
PROPOSED BY
Zoha Batool
APPROVED BY
Muhammad Aqeel Raza
Designation
Signature
Human Resource Manager
CEO
PURPOSE
The primary purpose of this policy is to outline attendance expectations of the Company, to lay out the details
of office timings / work week, weekends and to explain the mechanism for marking attendance. The policy also
lays down the consequences of habitual late arrivals. Timely and regular attendance is expected of all employees.
The policy outlines the Company’s expectations of its employees’ attendance and punctuality.
SCOPE
This policy applies to all full-time employees working on-site and remotely.
POLICY
Timely and regular attendance is an expectation of performance for all employees. In the event that an employee
is unable to meet this expectation, they must obtain approval from their Team Lead / head of department in
advance of any requested schedule changes. The HR Department will provide support and advise Team Lead /
head of department regarding the evaluation of extenuating circumstances.WORK DAYS AND OFFICE TIMINGS
●The official office hours are defined as 10:00 AM to 7:00 PM from Monday to Friday.
●However, in some instances, Saturday can be considered as a work day, e.g. to compensate for an away
day planned by the Company. Such instances will be announced by HR in advance.
●On-site employees are expected to Check-in to the biometric machine by 10:00AM
●Remote employees are expected to Check-in via zoho people app/website by 10:00 AM
●If an employee is running late then they are expected to make up for their working hour proportionately.
●Employees arriving late or leaving early for more than two hours of their work hours will have to apply
for half day of casual leave or sick leave.
●Employees arriving late or leaving early under two hours can avail short leave.
●All employees are entitled to the following break time during their work hours:
o2:00 PM to 3:00 PM from Monday through Thursday for lunch break.
o1:15 PM to 1:45PM on Friday for Friday prayer break.
o1:45 PM to 2:45 PM on Friday for lunch break.
●On-site employees are expected to Check-out using the biometric by 7:00 PM.
●Remote employees are expected to Check-out zoho people app/website by 7:00 PM.
●Employees are expected to log nine (9) hours per day, Monday through Friday.
●There may be specific hours and work timings other than usual defined for specific department(s) and/or
individual(s) depending on the nature of their job and/or role.
o
The shift timings of the Business Development team and Admin will be as per business need
and the team will complete 9 hours as per communicated shift timings from Monday through
Friday.
●Ramadan timings will be announced by the HR Department each year.
●Repetitively negative attendance patterns will be addressed according to the Progressive Discipline
Policy.EXCEPTIONS
●
The Company acknowledges that Zoho and the biometric machine are tech gadgets that may
malfunction at times. In such instances where an on-site or remote employee is trying to Check-in /
Check-out through the designated medium, but is unable to do so due a technical error, the following
process must be followed:
o
If the biometric machine is not validating your fingerprint or face scan, inform the HR
Department immediately either through email or in-person so your data can be rechecked /
rectified.
o
If Zoho is malfunctioning, inform the HR Department immediately through email so your
attendance for the day can be marked as present, and the concerned department may be
contacted to rectify the technical issue.
o
If an employee’s checks-in after the 15-minute mark, it will be considered a short leave, which
will be directly deducted from the leave bank. However, the circumstances can be assessed
along with the manager's consultancy.
o
To clarify the process for obtaining managerial approval for late arrival after 15 minutes, the
employee should send an email to HR copying their lead, indicating their anticipated arrival
time and the reason for being late. The manager should then respond to the email to approve
or deny the request. In the event that the email is not approved, HR will deduct a short leave
from the employee's leave bank.
LATE ARRIVALS
●
If any employee is running late, they must immediately inform their Team Lead / head of department
via phone call or text, preferably before leaving for work. Provided that employees are strictly prohibited
to make such phone calls or text while driving a car / riding a motorbike and should instead make such
phone calls or text either before leaving from their residence or by safely pulling over on the side of the
road for such communication.
●
Once the employee has arrived at work, they must send an email to their Team Lead / head of
department to document the delay and reason thereof, with the HR Department copied in the email.
●
Instances of missing email documentation of the late arrival, attendance for the day will be treated as
an appropriate leave, and relevant adjustment will be made from the employee’s Casual Leaves bank. If
the Casual Leaves quota is nil, adjustments will be made from the employee's Annual Leaves bank.
●
Since the reporting time is 10:00 AM, 10:01 will be considered late but will only have actionable
consequences if the employee checks in after 10:15 AM. Employees must email the HR department if
they arrive after 10:00 AM using the following format ;
To: hr@conovoinc.com
CC: Project ManagerTARDINESS
An employee will be deemed tardy if they routinely fail to report to work as per their official schedule, which
includes inter alia, a pattern of reporting late to work, or clocking out prior to the end of their shift, or continuous
unapproved absence from work. Continuous occurrence of any or all of the above occurrences will be treated as
a performance issue and may lead to disciplinary action up to and including termination.
To ensure punctuality, employees will be sent their weekly or biweekly attendance reports with check-in and
check-out timings.
